[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>LISA GARR: Hi, I'm Lisa Garr,
host of "Gaiam Inspirations."
Live big is the motto of my
guest today, Jack Canfield.
It's helped him stay
focused and inspired
after 144 publishers
turned him down
for the "Chicken Soup
For The Soul" series,
and it was also
the driving force
behind creating the Chicken
Soup For The Soul franchise
that to date has sold over
500 million copies in print.
And it also qualifies Jack as
America's number one success
coach, which is what he talks
about in his latest book called
"The Success Principles"
that is actually
in its 10th anniversary
revision which
has a lot more wonderful,
powerful principles
for success.
Welcome.
Thank you for being here.
>>JACK CANFIELD: Thank
you for having me, Lisa.
>>LISA: I'm so excited to talk
with you because goal setting
for me has always been
something that I love doing,
and I set, and then
they disappear.
And then I get off
track on goal setting.
Has this ever happened to the
people that you speak about?
Because you're such
an expert at this.
>>CANFIELD: Well,
everyone approaches
goal setting differently.
I mean, for me I set
21 goals every year.
And I have seven
areas of my life,
and I set three goals
in each of those areas.
And I usually get 17 of them
that year, and the other four
will happen within the
next 18 months or so.
And I learned very early
on when I was in my 20s,
I had a guru-- not a guru.
He was a business guru,
if you would call it that.
He was worth $600
million in 1968,
which would make him a
billionaire by today's
inflationary standards.
>>LISA: Oh, my gosh.
>>CANFIELD: His name
was W. Clement Stone.
He was a really good
friend of Napoleon Hill who
wrote "Think And Grow Rich."
And Napoleon Hill once
said, "Of all the companies
that ever used his principles,
W. Clement Stone's company
was the one that really
exemplified it the most."
And so when I went to work for
him when I was in my early 20s,
he taught me all
these principles,
and it really changed my life.
And so I've been using these
principles of goal setting,
visualization, affirmation,
do it now, don't give up,
all these kind of principles
that today everyone
kind of knows them, but most
people don't actually do them.
And so the trick is it's
not enough to know it.
How do you keep
yourself doing it?
And there's things
like mastermind groups,
accountability partners,
coaches, mentors,
that keep you on track.
The problem with most
people, like you and like me,
is we're what we might
call solo entrepreneurs.
We don't have a boss.
>>LISA: Solopreneurs.
>>CANFIELD: We don't have
a boss, so we're out there,
and our tendency is to
move toward the things
that are habitual, or
comfortable, or easiest,
or whatever.
And so we have to have some way
to hold ourselves accountable.
Every one of us has proven we
have areas where we're weak.
If your leg's weak, you put
a cast on it if it's broken,
and so we need casts,
psychological casts.
>>LISA: support.
>>CANFIELD: Support
until we're strong enough
to support ourselves in
those areas ourselves.
>>LISA: The challenge I find
is that I set this set of goals
but something else comes up
that's equally as magnificent,
and I say yes to that
which distracts me
from the original goal list.
What is that?
Is that the act of saying no?
Or is it choosing more
carefully saying yes?
>>CANFIELD: There's
nothing wrong
with changing
direction midstream
if something more important or
actually better comes along.
The challenge is-- and I
doubt this is true for you,
but I think for a lot of
people the distraction
of the new thing
protects them from having
to stay with the old thing
and actually get it done.
So a lot of time it
just is an excuse to not
hold ourselves
accountable to something.
But if someone came up
to me tomorrow and said
I'll give you $10 million to do
this project that's something
I've always kind of wanted to do
but didn't have the funds for,
and I thought it was more
important than the project I
was doing, I'd
probably re-vector.
But what I find from
most people who are not
achieving their goals or
constantly switching around
is that they either, one, their
goals were "should" goals.
And if you do a
goal out of should,
like I should lose
weight, I should do this,
I should spend more
time in the gym,
or whatever, then you're
not committed to it
at the same level.
I have a goal to transform
education so I'm constantly
focused on that.
It's not "should."
It's "want to."
So when I have a goal of
something I want to do,
like maybe the goal next
year will be go on a safari,
I want to do that.
I'm going to make
sure it happens.
But if I have a should
goal-- I find every year
most people get to
the end of the year,
and they have like five or six
goals they set that didn't do.
The next year, they set them
again, they didn't do them.
The next year, set
them, didn't do them.
Either that's a should goal,
or they don't know how, and is
they can't figure it out.
Or they've got
little subconscious,
limiting beliefs or
major fears around it.
Fear of rejection, fear of
loss, fear of looking foolish,
whatever it might be.
So then we can address the fears
and the psychological limiting
beliefs and get
those cleared up,
and then most
people move forward.
Unless again, it's something
you really don't want to do
but think you should have
done, so you put it down.
>>LISA: So you have to learn
that and choose carefully.
In the beginning when I talked
about those 144 publishers that
had turned you down, what kept
you going after 100, 101, 102?
I mean, most people would stop.
>>CANFIELD: Well, it'd be like
saying your kid's drowning out
at sea, what made you keep
swimming 100 yards, 144 yards,
150 yards?
>>LISA: Good analogy.
>>CANFIELD: You're
not there yet.
And for me, "Chicken
Soup For The Soul"
became a divine obsession.
I don't know how to
say it any other way.
It's something that
came into my mind.
It's something I became
totally obsessed with,
and I think it was because it
was meant to happen through me.
A friend of mine
now talks about-- he
wrote a book called "Success
3.0," Marc Gafni did,
and he talks about success
is allowing evolution
to occur through you, as you,
because we're the cutting
edge of consciousness evolving.
Abe each of us has
a unique expression,
something we need to
bring into the world.
And it's not about
being rich or famous,
although that might
be part of it,
but it's about maybe it's one
person has this music they
need to bring forward.
Someone else needs to
architect new buildings that
are ecologically sustainable.
Someone else needs to fix cars
or we'd all be in trouble,
and they love doing it.
So we have to do that thing
that wants to come through us,
and that book wanted to
be birthed through me.
It's like once you start having
contractions, you can't stop.
>>LISA: That's true.
Yeah, I don't want
to do this anymore!
>>CANFIELD: Ultimately
we would have
self-published if we had to.
I didn't really want
to be a publisher,
but I would have done it if I
needed to to get the book out.
Fortunately, the
145th person said yes.
>>LISA: Fortunately.
Speaking of evolution,
how have you
or your messages
evolved since then?
This was how long ago that
you started this franchise?
>>CANFIELD: "Chicken Soup
For The Soul," the first book
came out in 1993, so
we're beyond 20 years.
And so I think my
consciousness, and my work,
and the book's, and
all that have evolved
in the sense that-- well, first
of all, I have to tell you
I no longer am
coauthoring all the books.
We sold the copyrights
and the brand and all that
to another company
about five years ago.
And what happened was-- I
don't know if you've ever
had this experience.
Most people have.
You're doing something, you
love it, and all of a sudden
it just doesn't do
it for you anymore.
>>LISA: Maybe you've done it.
>>CANFIELD: So I knew I
needed to back away from it,
and fortunately there was
a group in New York who
really wanted to take it over.
And they had a better business
background, Harvard Business
School and all that,
and I'm much more
psychology and
human development,
so they were able
to take the brand
to places we never could have.
And it's been very good for
the whole Chicken Soup world.
It's all over the world now.
We actually have a
franchise, Chicken Soup
for The Indian Soul, in India.
There's about 20
books in that series
that most people in
America never heard.
>>LISA: Wow, right?
>>CANFIELD: So it's taken off.
>>LISA: It created a legacy
is really what you've done,
and so you've now moved
on into a different arena?
>>CANFIELD: Well, what happened
when I left the Chicken Soup
thing was I had to
recreate myself,
and so everyone said you sold
almost half a billion books.
How'd you do that?
And everyone was
going, well, I want
to be as successful as you.
You seem like it's easy for you.
And so I said, OK, I'm
going to take everything
I know about success, and I'm
going to put it in one book.
And I sat in bed one morning.
I had 114 principles,
and my publisher said,
are you kidding me?
No one's going to
read 114 principles,
so you got to narrow it down.
So we got it down to 64.
But these principles--
and I interviewed
75 of the most successful
people in North America.
I wanted to make sure
they we're just mine,
but they were universal,
and it turns out they were.
And all of a sudden, I'm like
America's number one success
coach instead of the
Chicken Soup guy.
And my work now is
evolving into training w
because before the
Chicken w I was
running these
self-development trainings,
and really good at it.
And then the books took off,
and we put all the energy
over there, and we sold that.
I came back to trainings.
We've trained now 500
trainers in over 40 countries
to do my work, which is the
deep, experiential success
principle we call
Breakthrough To Success.
And now we've just
finished a video program
where you could do it online.
You can get certified
as a trainer
by watching 40 hours of video.
Actually, you have to then run
a half-day and a 1-day workshop.
You got to send us video
of that so that can certify
you to make sure you do.
But we now have a goal to train
1 million people by the year
2030.
>>LISA: Think big, Jack.
>>CANFIELD: Think big, yeah.
Live big, think big.
>>LISA: What is the number
one success principle?
What would you say?
>>CANFIELD: Well, let
me ask you a question.
If you can only keep
one organ in your body,
which would you keep?
>>LISA: Yeah!
Everything.
You have to.
>>CANFIELD: Exactly.
Thank you very much.
>>LISA: Exactly.
>>CANFIELD: See, there's
always this what's
most important principle?
What's the silver bullet?
And there isn't one because
it really is a system,
and I would say there's
about 25 things in the book.
There's the first 25
principles that are a system.
It's like you can't make
a cake with only wheat,
or only with eggs, are only
with yeast, or whatever.
So it's a system,
and a system, I
define it as something that
always works as long as you
work the system the same way.
If you have a recipe for
your grandmother's apple pie,
if you always preset
the oven correctly,
put in the right stuff,
don't use white sugar,
use brown sugar-- no today,
we'd use something else.
Agave.
>>LISA: Not sugar.
>>CANFIELD: Yeah.
But the point being that,
just real quick, you
have to be clear
about what you want.
You have to take 100%
responsibility for your life.
You have to create a
vision of what it is.
You have to break it into goals.
You have to believe it's
possible, not just for someone
else, but for you.
Then you have to have
a plan, a strategy.
Now your strategy will
evolve and unfold,
but yo have to at least
see the first few steps.
I use the metaphor
of at night, you
don't need to see
the whole path,
you just need the next 200
yards, which your headlights
will illuminate.
But when you drive
that 200 yards,
the next 200 yards shows up.
If you don't know
what to do, go find
someone who's already done it.
I was in Texas getting my makeup
on before some morning TV show.
As I always do, I said
to the cosmetologist,
I said what's your dream?
She said, oh, I want to
own my own salon someday.
I said, it's great.
What are you doing
to make that happen?
She said, nothing.
I said, that's a
terrible strategy.
I said, why nothing?
And she said, well,
I don't know what
to do to open my own salon.
So I said, let me tell
you a radical idea.
Go find someone
who owns a salon.
Ask them what they did.
She went, oh,
that's really good.
>>LISA: What's my first step?
>>CANFIELD: Yeah.
And so you got to take
what's the first step?
You got to surround
yourself with people
that are positive so you have
a positive support group.
Get someone to hold
you accountable,
whether it's an
accountability partner.
Every morning you
and I would talk,
and say what are the five
things you're going to do today?
Practice the rule of five.
Do five things every day to
move you toward your core goal.
Then take action.
Respond to feedback, because
every action doesn't work.
Most people never
ask for feedback
because they're afraid of
what they're going to hear.
I ask my wife once a week, on
a scale of 1 to 10, how would
you rate our relationship?
I'm not always thrilled
with the answer.
>>LISA: That's brave!
>>CANFIELD: Most
people don't ask.
But I'm the only one
who can improve it.
If I don't ask her, she's told
the women in the nail salon,
the line at Gelson's, whatever.
>>LISA: That's right!
>>CANFIELD: So you got
to ask, and then you
got to respond to the
feedback, re-vector,
change course, persevere,
and never give up, and then
give thanks.
If you do those things in that
order-- and use affirmations
and visualization, which I left
out there, right before you
take action-- that's
a system that works.
Let's say this is a 10
number combination lock,
and you only know eight numbers.
I don't care how many
times you reconfigure
those eight numbers,
it still won't
work cause you're missing two.
>>LISA: So you need a formula.
>>CANFIELD: You need
a formula, yeah.
>>LISA: You said
something very important.
You said about
taking responsibility
for your goals or your actions.
>>CANFIELD: Well, taking
responsibility for the results
you produce.
You don't blame anyone else.
You don't complain.
>>LISA: That's huge.
>>CANFIELD: 100%.
And that's a big one.
That's the first
chapter in the book.
>>LISA: Ah-hah.
So taking responsibility for
even if you have failures
around it, there's usually some
reason where it might have been
a should instead of I would,
or something like that,
but it's somewhere buried in
your limiting beliefs, right?
>>CANFIELD: Yeah.
It's buried in your
limiting beliefs,
or it's buried in
the fact that you
didn't know what you were doing
and you didn't study enough.
You didn't get
enough information.
You didn't respond to feedback.
You got defensive when
people gave it to you.
You picked a bad location,
and nobody came, and then
you wonder why?
Well, you picked
the bad location
because it was
inexpensive instead
of studying more,
getting more capital,
before you opened your store.
There's a lot of things.
And people blame the economy.
Well, we know people
during the last recession
who got really wealthy, so it
couldn't have been the economy.
We know people that
never get sick so it
can't be the toxins in the air.
So what is it that we have
to take responsibility?
And that's the hardest thing
I get when I do interviews,
like on the radio
call-ins, well,
you can't blame
me for my cancer.
And I go, wait a second.
Do you only eat organic food?
Do you wear some
kind of EMF device?
Which I have on right now.
Do you drink pure water?
Are you drinking water
out of plastic bottles
that have BPA in it?
Have you detoxed at least
once every two months?
Do you live next to
a cellphone tower?
Are you eating GMO?
You can go down the list.
Are you keeping
your body alkaline?
And people go no,
no, no, no, no.
And then you're a victim?
Come on.
>>LISA: Taking responsibility.
We're going to take a look
here at Jack talking about how
to goal set.
Take a look.
>>CANFIELD: So why is it
so important to set goals?
Because you want to be a winner.
You want to be one of the
people that gets what you want.
And the first thing that
happens when you set goals is it
forces you to sit down and
clarify what you really want.
Most people never take
the time to really sit
down and intentionally
plan out their life.
They live a life of
reaction rather than
a life of creation,
a life of intention.
And so when you sit down
to think about, well,
if I'm going to set goals,
what do I set them for,
what do I set them
about, you have
to have some sense of what you
want to create in your life.
What's the ideal life that
I want to live look like?
What do I want in
terms of relationships?
What do I want in terms
of health and fitness?
How much money do I want to
be bringing into my life?
What impact do I want
to have in the world?
So we'll be taking
a look at all that.
But the key thing is to
sit down and take time.
And I'm going to suggest
that once you stop watching
this video, you set aside at
least a half hour-- better
an hour-- and sit, and really
start to think about what do I
want my life to look like?
What do I want to experience?
What do I want to do?
What I want to be, and
what do I want to have?
And you can look at this
in any time frame at all.
You can say, well, these
are my lifetime goals,
like I want to be in the
speaker's hall of fame,
or I want to win an
Olympic gold medal,
or I want to retire with an
investment fund of $30 million
in my portfolio.
Those are long term goals.
But you also want to
have short term goals.
What you want to accomplish
in the next five years
and in the next year?
And think a lot about what
do I want to accomplish?
12 months from now, where do
I want to be experiencing?
If we were sitting here
a year from now saying
what would have to
have happened for you
to feel really proud and
successful and pleased
with the success you've
made in that year.
So we can look at all those
different time frames,
but sit down and ask yourself,
what do I want to experience?
And one the things that I teach
people that's really powerful
is that you can really
look at all different areas
of your life, and we're
going to jump into that
in just a few minutes.
The other thing that's
very valuable about goals
is they give you a sense
of potential, momentum,
motivation.
They give you a sense of
direction in your life.
A lot of people don't
really have any direction.
They're just responding
to what other people want,
the demands they place
on them, and I always
say that people that
don't have goals
get used by people who do.
People that don't have
goals work for other people
that have them.
And my friend Jim Brown
once said something
like, he said, "If
you don't have goals,
you're going to be part
of other people's goals."
And I can tell you
what they have in mind
for you is not much.
So you want to be someone that's
saying, here's what I want,
and I'm going to go for it,
and created it, and have it
in my life.
Another reason that
setting goals is important,
and I think it's really
the most important reason,
is that when you set
a goal, it requires
you to become something
bigger than you already
are in order to achieve it.
It requires you to grow.
My mentor, W. Clement Stone, who
I worked for back in the 1970s,
he said, "I want
you to set a goal
so big that it requires
you to stretch and become
someone worth becoming."
And the point of that is
that it's not the goal,
because any goal you
achieve, whether it's
the car, a house, your TV
show, a great reputation,
a big portfolio, lots of money,
all that can be taken away.
Cars are stolen,
houses burn down,
earthquakes happen, Marriages
dissolve, fortunes are lost,
but who you became in the
process of developing that can
never be taken away from you.
And that's really the payoff.
It's called mastery
in life, and you
want to be putting
yourself out there
and forcing yourself
to grow, to develop
new skills, new mindsets,
new relationships,
new competencies, et cetera.
And that's really
the ultimate outcome
because that will
always stay with you.
You can never learn less.
You can only learn more, and
we want to have you constantly
growing yourself, and goals
require you to do that.
And I want you, when
you set your goals,
to set goals that will
stretch you, not freeze you.
If they're too
big, you'll freeze.
It they're too small,
they're boring.
And if they're just at the right
level, you're going to grow.
How do you decide what to
write down as your goals?
We know they need to be
measurable and specific,
but what do I write down?
I'm going to suggest three
quick techniques you can do.
One is what we call an
irritation toleration list.
You walk through your house or
your apartment, your office,
your car, your garage,
your factory, anything
that you have dominion over,
and make a list of everything
that isn't exactly the
way you want it to be.
That door never closes
right, I can never
find a stapler when
I want it, I've
got this hole in
the screen door,
I don't have the pots I
need in my kitchen, whatever
it might be, and make a list.
And then what I'm
going to suggest you do
is that's what you don't want.
Ask yourself what do I want?
Because a lot of times what
people focus on is what
they don't want.
I don't want to be a bad parent.
I don't want to have
my house foreclosed on.
I don't want to lose my car.
And now you're focusing
on the very thing
you don't want is where
you're putting your attention.
We know from the
law of attraction
that will actually get you
more of what you don't want.
So it's OK look at what
you don't want only long
enough to say, OK, I want
the opposite of that.
Now that what you
know what you want,
I'm going to suggest
that a good way
to get started on that
is to take a weekend
and just really blitz through
all those things and get them
handled.
And a lot of people when they
come and they listen to me
talk like this, they
say, wait a second,
I want to be a millionaire.
I want to have world peace.
I want to end hunger in
Pakistan, whatever it is,
and you want to walk
through and worry
about I don't have a stapler
next to the Xerox machine?
And the answer is
yes, and here's why.
If you are sitting there
going, I can't even
get the door to close
on my garage, what
makes me think I could create
peace in the Middle East?
And so basically you've got
to start having successes
with a lot of these little
things getting handled
in your life so it
gives you the confidence
that you can handle
the big things.
Secondly, it clears the
slate so that every time you
walk past a Xerox
machine, you're not going,
man, I wish we had a stapler.
I can't find this,
I can't find that.
It allows you to really
start focusing on the bigger
things in your life.
So that's the first
way to start getting
clear about some
things you want.
Secondly, I'm going to suggest
you make a list of 101 goals
that you want to
achieve before you die.
101 goal list.
You may have seen the
movie "The Bucket List?"
It's the same thing.
There's Morgan Freeman
and Jack Nicholson saying,
I'm going to die soon,
there's all these things
I wanted to do.
You don't want to get to the
end of your life and all these,
well, someday I wish I had,
and not have done them.
John Goddard, who I write
about in my first "Chicken
Soup For The Soul"
book, at the age of 15
made a list of 126 goals
that he wanted to achieve.
And when I met him
he was in the 70s.
He'd achieved 117
of those goals.
He'd been to the
Great Wall of China,
gone to the Great
Pyramids, he'd gone down
the Nile River in
a boat, and he'd
done about everything anyone
could ever think to do.
But because he sets that list
and every year he reviewed it,
and said, OK, what do
I want to do this year,
he led a magical life.
>>LISA: So let's talk about,
if we can, some of your goals,
if you can, in this new,
not phase in your life,
but evolution of your life.
What are some of your new goals?
>>CANFIELD: Well, we kind of
touched on a little bit of that
before, to have a
million trainers by 2030.
>>LISA: Right.
>>CANFIELD: This book's coming
out in its 10th anniversary
edition.
I want to see 500,000
copies sold this year.
I have a new book
coming out later
this year called "The
30-Day Sobriety Solution,
How To Get Sober Or Cut
Back Drinking In The Privacy
Of Your Own Home."
I want to see
300,000 of those get
sold by the end of the year.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>CANFIELD: And that's
a really good book.
I'm working with a guy
who's got an 85% success
rate in his coaching program
using most of my principles,
and some other things like
NLP and things like that.
>>LISA: Why did you
write that book?
Just real quick.
>>CANFIELD: Well, I
met him at a retreat
here in Maui where
we're filming this.
He came to my
retreat, and I learned
he was using a lot of my
principles in his program
and getting great success, but
he had a somewhat small impact
in the world so far.
I said we got to get
this out to more people.
And with your
knowledgeable being
in that sobriety world--
and I've had several family
members who are alcoholics
who are also sober now,
fortunately-- and my
reputation and ability
to get books on in the
world, it would be a shame
not to do this.
And so we decided to do it.
And it was a very
beautiful process
of putting this together.
We actually beta tested the book
along with the website and all
the coaching he was
doing, and everyone
had major breakthroughs.
Because, see, what
happened, he was in AA,
and AA's a great
thing, but they only
have about a 20% success rate.
>>LISA: Oh, really?
>>CANFIELD: Yeah.
People that go and stay,
great, but most people go,
they don't stay.
There's something missing there.
I've been to several AA
meetings with my kids,
and I'm always
sitting there going,
God, I want to run
an exercise now.
God, I'd love to
lead a meditation.
Well, if they can only deal with
that, that would solve that.
>>LISA: What's missing.
>>CANFIELD: Go to
the core of what
got them in there in the
first place, which is
there weren't alcohol deprived.
They were, like, needing to
self-medicate their pain,
or they were afraid they
didn't have a purpose in life.
So he was going to AA
meetings, relapsed three times,
listened to a Tony
Robbins tape, said,
why aren't they teaching
this stuff in rehab
and in the recovery programs?
So he started putting
that together,
ran across my book, started
applying a lot of that.
So that's how it came together.
And really now what we have is
the best of that whole recovery
world mixing together with the
best of the human potential
and consciousness and
transformation movement,
which has always
needed to happen.
And so now we get to do that.
>>LISA: Speaking
of transformation,
you have created the
Transformational Leadership
Council, which is such a
heart-centered, beautiful
environment to be in,
and you've created
a field of amazing
leaders and people
who lead movements in one space.
Have you always been this much
of a heart-centered person?
I know that we've talked before
in an interview about a very
rocky childhood that
you had, growing up
on different sides
of the tracks,
and had to go through a lot of
learning at the very beginning.
Have you get evolved
in that way now
to the ultimate of your lessons
just being about love, Jack?
>>CANFIELD: Well,
the reality is that I
was a very cynical, shy,
somewhat judgmental person
growing up, and I picked up from
my parents the way they lived.
And they hated big business.
They hated corporations.
So I became a
hippie in the '60s,
and I hated all that stuff, too.
Very counter cultural, so
a lot of against energy.
And I think a lot of the
things I was against needed
transformation, but
being against them
wasn't going to change it.
You need to come from love,
and understanding, compassion,
and then you can embrace.
So it was a lot of
years of psychotherapy,
meditation, Byron Katie's
work, Sedona Method work, EFT.
I mean, I have probably done
everything from Arika to Zen,
A to Z.
Which has been great.
It's like I'm still
growing, I'm still loving.
I'm learning to love.
I once said my autobiography,
if I ever write it,
is going to be called "Loving
To Learn, Learning To Love."
>>LISA: That's why I
brought it up, yes.
I know you as a very
loving human being.
I watch you in the
exercises that your lead,
and they're so heart-centered.
I see the joy that
comes out of your eyes
when you see that type of
love connection in the room,
and it just inspires me to see
what a heart-centered person
that you are.
And so I was wondering
how that comes
into play with what it is
that you do around goal
setting, around your actions.
Your next steps, what
you set up for yourself.
>>CANFIELD: Well, there's a
very important distinction
that I'll share with you.
I don't know if you've ever
interviewed Michael Beckwith
and if he's shared his four
steps of spiritual development
with you, but this was
really revelatory to me
because I do teach goal setting.
Michael said there's four
stages of spiritual development.
The first stage is victim.
God's doing it to me.
I'm a victim.
God, what did I do?
Why do I deserve this?
Et cetera.
The second stage is where
you realize that you can
work with God's universal laws.
So you learn things like
affirmations, goal setting,
visualization,
positive thinking,
how to meditate and intend
and all that, and it works.
And so you say, whoa.
Now a lot of people
get stuck there.
There's another level,
which is to say, oh, my God,
if there's universal
laws, there must
be something behind those laws.
I want to find out what that is.
And now instead of
working with God's laws,
you realize, hey,
wait a second, I
want to be a channel for that
thing that's creating all this.
So now you stop saying my
will, and so you say, well,
what is thy will?
I will do that.
So now you're tuning
in for guidance.
Internal guidance.
And I had always been
teaching goal setting should
come from tuning inside,
going to your higher self,
saying what is it
I'm here to do?
What is my next step?
What am I to manifest?
Then you use the steps of
goal setting and affirmation.
There's a relation.
Because now it's not
coming from your ego.
It's coming from
your higher self.
>>LISA: It's not coming
from your bottom line,
your financial bottom line.
It's coming from a
totally different source.
>>CANFIELD: Yes.
So everything I've done in the
last 30, 40 years of my life
has been inner guidance.
I was guided to do "Chicken
Soup For The Soul."
I was guided to the set up the
Transformational Leadership
Council.
I was guided to set up a
training program for trainers.
I just came back from
Iran two weeks ago,
and Iran is considered
an enemy of America.
But when I go over there,
and I've been there twice,
the people are just like us.
They feel their
government's hijacked
them the way our
government's kind of been
hijacked by certain elements.
And they love the west.
They love us.
And everywhere I
go, I realize people
want to love and be loved.
They want to make a difference.
They want to feel important.
That's it.
And so whether it's in
China, or whether it's
in Texas, or whether
it's in South Africa,
we're all the same.
And so when you get that, it's
pretty easy to love everybody.
Someone once said-- they
put their hand up like this,
and said, so which of these
fingers am I going to cut off?
If that's all you can see.
And you realize if you go like
this, they're all connected.
>>LISA: That's good!
>>CANFIELD: So basically,
if we're harming anyone,
we're harming ourself.
And It's easy to say those
words and read them in a book,
but when you eventually
get it is really true,
then it's transformative.
>>LISA: Then you
don't judge anybody.
You don't seclude anybody.
Yes, that's absolutely true.
So in this new-- not
new evolution, but
as you have grown to
now talking about love
and bringing love into goals,
can you tell us your practice,
your way of getting
these downloads,
these divine messages?
What do you do?
>>CANFIELD: I would
lie to say I meditated
every day, because if
I get up at 4 o'clock
to catch a plane somewhere,
I probably won't that day,
but certainly four to five
days a week I will meditate.
And I go inside, and
I've got three or four
different meditations
I do, and I never
know which one I'm going to
do until I start breathing.
But they all open
me up to receive,
to just pay attention to
what wants to come through.
And sometimes I get words.
Sometimes I get feelings.
Sometimes I see pictures.
Sometimes I get nothing, but
then the next day something
will happen that I feel
attracted to it, which came
from that being quiet space.
And so each day, it's
kind like, OK, what now?
Deepak Chopra has a
wonderful meditation
he does every morning.
He says something to
the effect of please
help me to be of greater
value to more people.
Whatever that is, I'll do it.
And so I kind of do that
after I heard he did that.
I thought that's pretty cool.
And how can I reach more people
and give them more support,
create less suffering,
more joy, more abundance.
>>LISA: Do you still have
the monkey mind chatter
that most of us have when
you start that process?
>>CANFIELD: I would
say yes, but less.
I've started to
notice-- I'm 70 now,
and I've been meditating
for a lot of years,
and there's more quiet
than there used to be.
There really is.
I had an experience about
two years ago working
with a shaman, and he said, I'm
going to take you to a place.
You want to come back, but you
have to promise me you will,
because if you won't
make that promise,
I won't take you there.
And I had an experience
of pure bliss.
I thought I knew what bliss was.
We talk about it easily.
You know, oneness,
no separation.
There was no observer.
There was nothing
to be observed.
It was just oneness.
And even that
doesn't sound right.
And I remember when I came
out, my wife was there.
She said, all you did was cry
for 20 minutes after that,
and you just kept saying, thank
you, thank you, thank you.
And I could have died.
I mean, I really didn't
want to come back,
but I made the promise.
My wife was waiting
for me, so I did.
But from that moment, somehow
there's more quiet in my mind.
But it's not like I don't
sit in there and go, jeez,
I got to do so and so.
>>LISA: How did
he take you there?
>>CANFIELD: He took me there
with a substance, actually.
>>LISA: Oh, OK.
>>CANFIELD: Called ayahuasca.
>>LISA: Yes, ayahuasca.
>>CANFIELD: It's
from the rainforest.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>CANFIELD: And I'm
not a big druggie.
I didn't do it in the '60s.
>>LISA: We've talked
about it before on Gaiam.
>>CANFIELD: And I just
decided to do that.
I've done it once before
in the rainforest,
and it was profound.
I mean, literally I'm not the
same person I was before that.
>>LISA: Can we talk
about that for a second?
Because I had a near
death experience
where I visited that place.
If it's a state or a
place, I don't know.
If it's another
dimension, I don't really
think that matters.
But I went to that pure,
expanded, vast, no separation
place of consciousness, and I
seek to find that all the time.
I think it exists here.
>>CANFIELD: Oh,
it does, it does.
>>LISA: Here right now.
Do we need a near death,
falling off a bike that I did,
or a substance to get there?
Why can't we tap in?
What is that ego or whatever?
What is it?
>>CANFIELD: Well, it's our mind.
Our mind basically is
afraid, and our ego's
afraid of dissolving
into that oneness
because then it
doesn't exist anymore.
But it's like a drop of water
in the ocean is the ocean,
it's just not the whole ocean,
any more than I'm all of God,
but I am God.
So if we go back to Michael's
concept for a moment,
it was like, OK,
God's doing it to me.
Now I can do it with God,
and I'm going to channel God.
In the fourth stage of
consciousness, I am God.
Not all of God.
It's not an arrogant place.
It's called, oh,
that's what we all are.
And when I find
that, then imagine
what my consciousness is.
So my experience always has been
that we have these mountaintop
experiences, like
whether it's a meditation
or it's through some
kind of psychotropic,
and then we go, oh,
that's possible.
That really is there.
Then we come back, and
there's still bills to pay,
and the dog poops on the
carpet, and the bill collector's
coming.
>>LISA: Sucks us back
down to this dimension.
>>CANFIELD: But if you
go in there every day
with some kind of
practice, whether it's
meditation, or Tai Chi,
or walking on the ocean,
everyone has their own
way of getting in there.
Some is physical, some visual,
some auditory, chanting,
whatever.
I will share this
one little thing.
When I was in this
experience with the shaman,
I just was there,
and all of a sudden
it was this explosion of light.
And then you know how they
call it the voice of God
at a conference?
It says, "Ladies and gentlemen,
please take your seats.
Robin Williams."
So all of a sudden, I
heard this voice go,
"You are about to experience
what very few people on Earth
will ever experience."
And it went--
And I was just like, oh, my God.
And it really is, oh, my God.
>>LISA: Yeah, it is, because
God is that whole entire space.
And it's so vast.
It's so vast.
And interestingly
enough, I went to Asia.
I was in California in the
bottom of a mountain, fallen,
and I went to Asia in my mind.
>>CANFIELD: Sounds like
a John Denver song.
(SINGING) Went to
Asia in my mind.
>>LISA: Exactly!
But interestingly enough,
fast forward 15 years later.
I'm in Asia with it
dear, dear friend
who tried to die on the beach.
And I held his hand
during that moment,
and it was in Asia
that that happened,
and I watched him transition
out and in that space.
And the soul knew.
My soul knew that.
It's there.
We watched Scarlett Lewis talk
the other day about her son,
Jesse, whose life was taken
in the Sandy Hook tragedy,
and he had all of these
precognitive drawings
of this killer that he
had drawn before he died.
That how the soul knows.
I know this is an interview
about goal setting, Jack,
but I want to ask you
how does the soul know?
What do you think?
Your soul knows.
>>CANFIELD: Well, I'll tell
you an interesting story.
When I was in college
I had a roommate
whose father was very eccentric,
and every 10 years, he
wrote a book.
He'd study for 10
years and write a book.
He'd written a book
on the Piri Reis map
which they found predated
any exploration like Columbus
or any of those people.
He spent 10 years
trying to figure out
who was it that came over here
and drew the inland waterways
of America and all that?
When he died, he was working on
a book called "My First Million
Years," and he
was having himself
hypnotically age regressed.
He went all the way
back to coming out
of the ocean as an amphibian
with pure memory of that.
But what happened was in
hypnotic age regression,
they bring you back
by saying you're
coming forward in
time and space,
coming forward in time space.
He went into the future.
And he was at the airport, and
he read the headline on a paper
that said something
about an air crash
or whatever it was three
days into the future.
And three days
later, that happened.
Now in order for
that, you either--
what he ended up believing
after all of his research
is that all time is
happening simultaneously.
The future, the present, and
the past all exist right now.
So just the way you
can go into the past,
you can also go into the future.
It's not like it's
going out there.
It's like layers of this all
happening at the same time,
and you just tune into that.
That's my theory, anyway.
I liked the way he
explained it best.
>>LISA: That's what
kind of goals are
is it's setting into the
future what can happen.
And if you align
yourself with meditation
and you're taught consciousness
practices that you're
talking about, you can
actually align yourself
with it actually manifesting,
with it actually happening.
>>CANFIELD: Well, something
one of the speakers here
at this conference we're
attending where we're filming
this said the other day is that
basically the more you can free
up the energy in your body and
contain more energy-- this is
one of the big problems with
"The Secret" is lot of people
say, well, I did all that
stuff, but nothing's happening.
Well, it's either a
limiting belief, or a fear,
or some anger, or
some energy that's
not of love manifestation
that's blocking that.
And so all the
techniques, if you
don't have enough of
the openness, that's
why the work on belief's, the
work on overcoming your fears,
releasing, all the technologies
that exist now to do that
are so important.
And so many people are pushing,
pushing, pushing, pushing.
But what I find as you
open up this space,
it's almost like
your drawn forward.
You're pulled into
it instead of trying
to wedge your way into it.
>>LISA: That just
answered my next question,
is what about the worries
that come up in all of that?
But if you let that
go, then you're
sucked into the field,
like you're talking about,
which is so fascinating.
That's so great.
That's so good.
All right.
We're going to take a look
here at Jack talking about what
to do at the first of the
year, but you could do this
at any first in your life.
Take a look
>>CANFIELD: Because we
now know from research
that the simple act
of writing a goal down
increases your chances
of achieving it by 55%.
This is research done at the
University of Pennsylvania.
And we know if you write
it down and you read it
just a couple times
throughout the year,
it increases your chances 100%.
And if you read it every
week and review it,
we know that it
increases your chances.
You're getting 200% more
than the regular people.
That's how many goals
you're going to achieve.
So writing it down is critical.
So make that list, and be brave.
Just put down things you want.
Don't worry about how
it's going to show up.
We'll talk about
that a little later.
And the third thing
I'm going to recommend
is what we call the
vision exercise,
to look at your life--
and we divide your life
into seven areas.
There's relationships.
There's finance and money.
There's your job and career.
There's health and fitness.
There's fun and recreation.
There's what we call
personal, which is just things
I want to own, things
I want to do just
for the sake of doing them.
This includes your spiritual
goals, your emotional goals,
your educational goals.
And lastly, contribution.
What difference do you
want to make in the world?
What legacy do
you want to leave?
And if you were to look
at each of those areas
and say one year from
now what would have
I liked to have accomplished
in that area of my life,
and then say, OK, that's a goal
I'm going to set for myself,
now you've got seven goals.
Now for some people, seven
goals may be too many.
You might want to
say, well, that's more
than I want to take on.
Maybe I'm going to prioritize
and pick three or four.
That's fine.
We don't want you to
overwhelm yourself.
But if you really
want a balanced life
and a very fulfilling life in
all areas, so you're healthy,
you're happy, and
you're successful,
and you've got a great
energy and your body,
and you're getting
out there and making
a difference in the
world, and you're
growing your financial
world, you're
going to have a great balance.
So we want you to look at
all those areas of your life,
and then think
about specifically
what's one thing I
want to accomplish
in every one of those areas.
And if you do that, you're going
to have a really great year,
and you'll have a head
start in setting your goals.
So let's look at some of the
common traps and pitfalls
that people fall
into that stop them
from setting goals
correctly and also
from achieving their goals.
Number one is what we
call unrealistic goals.
People say, OK, I want
to do something that's
totally impossible for
them, but they just
got it out of someplace like
the cultural norms they see.
Everyone wants to
be a millionaire.
So we'll have people
in our seminars
that are making $35,000
a year, and we'll
say what's your financial
goal for the next year?
And they go, a million dollars.
What about people
making $500,000 a year?
What's your goal?
A million dollars.
And so there's this
external cultural norm
that says, oh, a
million dollars,
but it's not really necessarily
relevant to your situation.
One of the concepts
that we teach
is that there are
four levels that you
can be setting goals from.
The first is called
repair and recovery.
If you're sitting there,
and you've just come out
of bankruptcy, or
you've lost your job,
or you have no foundation
meaning you don't have
any kind of infrastructure
to start a business with,
no assets, nothing
you can invest with,
making a million dollars in
one year, it's not impossible,
but it's not likely.
And so you want to say
what would be a next step
up for me to get me
from repair and recovery
to what we call foundation?
I remember when I first
started my company.
I didn't have a typewriter.
I had one phone in my house.
I can remember we had like
literally five splitters
taking phones off to
five phones a year later
because we didn't have
enough money at that point
to even go out and
rent an office space.
So you have to build
up this infrastructure
and then create this foundation.
Are you coming
from a foundation?
Do you have the basics?
Do you have an education?
Do you have the skills you need?
Do you have the competencies?
Do you have the relationships,
the network, whatever.
And then once you have
that, you can move
into place we call abundance.
A lot of people don't
have any abundance.
No abundance of time.
No abundance of friends.
No abundance of network.
No abundance of opportunities.
But in my life, I have
an abundance of all that.
And eventually
you get to a level
where you can set
goals from that
where I can build huge dreams.
We can set up offices in
25 cities around the world.
We can invest in all
kinds of programs,
and projects, and
workshops to develop.
The last stage is
called mastery.
We want to get to
mastery, but you
can't go from repair
and recovery to mastery.
If you just got
out of the hospital
and you had cancer
surgery, you're
not going to be
running a 100 yard
dash in nine seconds or a
26 mile marathon next month.
And so your goals
need to be relevant
based on where you start from.
So really sit back and
say, OK, is this a goal
that's believable for me?
Another thing you
want to look at,
is this something I really want?
Because so many of our goals
are created out of shoulds.
I should lose weight.
I should exercise more.
I should eat more healthy.
I should do this
thing with my family.
But if it's not
something you want to do,
it's going to show up year
after year on your goal sheet,
and it's going to be one
that you never get done.
And why don't you get it done?
Because deep down, it doesn't
have any juice for you.
There's no passion.
There's no excitement about it.
The things that really make
you go, wow, I want that!
>>LISA: What we heard there
was about combining, really,
the goals and what we're talking
about here, the consciousness
and the goals.
That personal development
and self-development worlds
have really
combined, I believe--
business development and
self-development, I should say,
have really combined.
And you bring that
about in your book,
and you wrote that a while ago.
Tell us about the new
information in the book.
>>CANFIELD: Well, what I'm
most excited about in the 10th
anniversary revised edition--
that's a lot of words--
of the success principles--
>>LISA: In other
words, for new stuff.
>>CANFIELD: Yes, very good.
There's 100 new
pages in this book.
This book actually has more
pages than the last one.
We found a thinner stock paper
that actually works really
well.
>>LISA: Nice.
>>CANFIELD: So it's
still very good.
We've added 100 new pages
of chapter on leadership
called It's called Lead So
People Will Want To Follow.
We did a chapter on networking
with Dr. Ivan Misner
who started BNI, Business
Network International.
I worked with a guy named
Moses Ma who's a tech genius.
We did for new
principles on how to be
successful in the
digital age, things
about crowd sourcing,
crowd funding, how
do you brand yourself in
social media and all of that.
But the most exciting
part of the book, I think,
is we handled a lot of
questions that came up.
I did this Ask Jack
Calls for years.
People said, well, I
don't understand this.
So we handled all of that.
And then all of the stories
in there are now Illustrated--
or the principles
are illustrated
by people who have actually
read the first book,
applied the principles,
and had amazing successes.
So it's not the Donald
Trumps of the world
or the Olympic athletes.
It's real, just
everyday folks who've
done extraordinary things so
it's much more believable.
If you read about
Donald Trump, you
go, ah, but he's Donald Trump.
He's different.
But you read about
a single mom who
started a company or a person
who had a brain injury,
and as soon as he got that-- he
was hit in the side of the car
and couldn't walk, and yet using
visualization and affirmations,
as she learned
from this book, was
able to walk down the
aisle for her wedding just
a few months later.
All the doctors saying that's
impossible, you can't do it.
But my favorite story,
I'm in Manila teaching
in the Philippines,
and this guy comes up
to interview me the
night before when
I was doing a book signing.
And at the end of
the interview, I
said that is one of the best
interviews I've ever had.
Almost as good as Lisa.
So I said, how long
you been doing this?
And he said, oh, this
is my first interview.
I said, get out of here.
And he'd just been
hired by the newspaper
to interview successful
people about success,
and he had just lost his job.
He'd owned a restaurant that
bankrupted because of fighting
between the partners.
His girlfriend left him.
He was couch surfing.
He had no money and no car.
A friend dropped him off.
I said, John, how much
money do you have?
He says, $3.80.
That's my total net worth.
So I have him $20 to buy dinner.
I had to buy a book
from the bookstore
to give it to him because
I didn't have any.
I'm in Manila, right?
And so I come back to
Manila two years later
to do a one-day
seminar, and in walks
John wearing gold Doc Marten
shoes, beautiful blue blazer,
and a big logo on in gold on
it, and then 10 guys behind him
all with polo shirts
with the same logo.
And I said, you're the
guy that interviewed me.
You look different.
He said, I am now the number
one motivational speaker
in the Philippines.
I have two cars, a house, a
beach house, a radio show,
a TV show.
I am getting a million a year.
>>LISA: What!
>>CANFIELD: I've got audiences
of 600 to 1,000 people.
I said, John, what the heck?
How'd you do that?
He said, you gave me your book.
You were successful.
Here you are, millions
of books sold,
multimillionaire, happy
life, good health, all this.
And he said, that
guy's successful.
I'm not I'm going
to do everything
he says in that book.
Every single chapter, I'm going
to do everything for one year.
And if it doesn't
work, I've lost a year.
If it does work, I want to
be as successful as him.
So he did it,
every single thing.
I don't know anyone else who's
ever done every single thing.
>>LISA: So it was his Bible.
>>CANFIELD: It was his Bible.
I have story after story
like that in there of people.
And then what they
did, Forrest Willett
is lying in bed in Toronto.
I'm doing a TV interview,
and they say, right
after this news we'll be back.
Jack Canfield is going
to talk about how
to get from where you are
to where you want to be.
Now he's got brain damage
from an automobile accident,
has not been out of bed for
two years, totally depressed.
Just lies in bed like this.
He heard that, I want
to get from where
I am to where I want to be.
Got his wife to
buy him the book.
He was reading at
the third grade
level because of brain damage.
He taught himself to read
just to read this book.
He is now a super
successful businessman.
Took my training,
the Trainer program,
is giving speeches
all over the country.
>>LISA: Really!
>>CANFIELD: He'd still be
lying in bed, depressed,
if it wasn't for this book.
So I am only optimistic about
it because I know it works.
And I don't need another
dollar, but what I do need
is for the world to work, and
that's why I keep doing this.
>>LISA: Those stories
are incredible.
They're in the book?
>>CANFIELD: Um-hum.
>>LISA: Oh, my gosh.
Talk about inspiration.
That's beautiful.
And what a wonderful feeling
that must be for you,
to make that much of an impact
on even one person's life,
let alone the 500 million
that have all been impacted
by the Chicken Soup world.
How does that feel?
>>CANFIELD: Good.
>>LISA: All right!
>>CANFIELD: No, it does.
I sleep well.
I am happy as heck
everywhere I go.
I mean, when I was
in Iran, they told me
"The Secret" had been shown on
national Iranian television six
times.
It's the number
one DVD in China.
Just being part of
that would be enough.
>>LISA: Really?
Wow!
>>CANFIELD: I mean, who knew?
>>LISA: What next?
My goodness.
Well, you do teach people how
to bring about their own dreams
through publishing their own
books and how to self-publish.
You have a great
piece on that here.
We're going to take a
look at this video, Jack
talking about all of you
self-publishers out there.
Take a look.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>CANFIELD: Here's a person who
just sent me a magazine article
in the mail today, and she's
reading one of our books
in the magazine.
There's the picture of the book.
It's fun.
I love my work.
You know, everyone has to
start with their first book,
and it's a challenge.
I remember when I thought
about writing my first book,
I thought, oh, my God, it seems
like such a huge thing to do.
I had just finished being a high
school teacher back in Chicago.
I was teaching in
an inner city school
where I realized
my students weren't
that motivated to learn.
And I was really
excited about history,
but they didn't seem to be.
And at first I thought, well,
maybe I'm not a great teacher.
And then I began to realize
that they didn't believe
they could learn, so
I started studying
this area called self-esteem.
How do you raise kids'
belief in themselves?
And I started
taking workshops, I
read all the books I
could get my hands on,
but I never found the
book that I wanted to buy.
And someone once said to
me, one of my professors,
if you can't find the book
you're looking for, it must
be you're supposed to write it.
And so I thought,
well, maybe I am.
And so I sat down, and I
wrote a book on "100 Ways
To Enhance Self-esteem
In The Classroom."
And that book, which
was a book for teachers,
went on to sell 400,000 copies.
And?
Literally just it absolutely
changed my career.
I don't think there's anything
simple about writing a book.
You got to deal with
a lot of obstacles.
First of all, you're
taking time away
from your family, your
wife, your children.
There's the self-doubt
you have to confront.
I mean, I can't tell
you how many times I
sit there going like, does
this really read well?
Is anyone really going
to care about this?
Am I wasting my time?
Often you're taking time
away from your health
because you're sitting
there for long hours.
I can remember
many times starting
to write at 7:00 at night,
and the next thing I knew,
the birds were singing.
The sun was coming up.
But I had such a passion.
I wanted to get
this message out.
And I just whatever it
took, I was going to do it.
So with "Chicken
Soup For The Soul,"
which is probably my greatest
achievement in my life,
that came about very
surreptitiously.
I was giving talks,
and I was illustrating
all of my seminars and
my workshops and talks
with stories, because I
know that stories help
people to remember the concept.
And I was telling
stories in my talks.
I was at Boston coming
home on a plane,
and someone had just
asked me that they day,
they said that
story about a puppy.
Is that in the book anywhere?
My daughter needs to read it.
A week earlier, someone said
the story about the Girl Scout.
Is that in the book anywhere?
My daughter needs to read it.
So I started writing down
what are the stories I know?
And came up with like
71, something like that.
I thought, wow, there's
enough for a book.
Once you've written
a book, and it
could take anywhere from six
months to a year write it,
then you got to sell it.
And with "Chicken
Soup For The Soul,"
that's kind of a
classic story now,
but we were rejected over
the course of a year and more
by 144 publishers.
They said people don't
read short stories.
It's a stupid title.
It's not sexy.
It's not edgy.
And if we'd given up after 100,
I'd not be sitting here today.
That's led now to 225 books
with over 500 million copies
sold in 47 languages
around the world.
Absolutely changed my life.
I've met some of the
most amazing people.
I've had lunch at
the White House.
I've met Bill Clinton.
I've met George Bush.
I've met the king of
several countries.
I've met the presidents
of countries.
I met the guys who
started Google.
So it's given me an ability
to influence, to get
into government, to make
a difference in politics,
to have a lot of things.
But the most important
thing it does--
and those are all wonderful
perks, prestige, and power,
and profits, and the big P's--
but the real big one is impact
in other people's lives.
What I have here, these are just
letters and cards thanking me
for everything from
books I've written
to seminars I've created.
Here's one from China.
I get letters, and
emails, and presents,
and books other
people have written,
and bottles of wine every
single day, saying you
changed my life.
And I think about, wow, my
book impacted that life.
And literally thousands and
thousands of stories of people
who've started businesses,
written their books.
And to know that thousands
of people around the world
have better lives because
of what I chose to write,
that's the payoff.
So at this stage of my career,
what I've decided to do
is to really focus
a lot of my energy
on helping other authors get
their message out and become
bestselling authors as well.
As I thought about
that, I said, well,
who do I know that's been in
my career that's helped me?
Some of my co-author
friends, some of my friends
who are celebrity authors,
some of the people
that helped me like
Steve Harrison.
When we started "Chicken
soup For The Soul,"
we reached out to
Steve and said, hey,
can you help us get
this book out there?
And he quantum leaped
our success very quickly.
And so I said, Steve, would you
be willing to team up with me,
and let's create a
training program that can
help authors get there faster?
And he said, yes.
>>STEVE HARRISON:
Most people who
want to succeed as authors
don't realize there really
is a marketing game, and there
are proven strategies you
can use to get more publicity
and sell a lot of books.
And Jack and I have
really enjoyed teaming up
to really share the best
seller blueprint with aspiring
authors.
>>CANFIELD:
Everybody has a book,
whether it's a
memoir, or a cookbook,
or a book about how you were
successful as a teacher,
a real estate agent.
Whatever it might
be, there's something
you have to share with the
world that's uniquely yours.
And here's the deal.
You just have to start.
You sit down, and
you write one page,
then you write a
second page, and then
you write a third page.
Now it's easy to say that.
There's some skills that
are useful to do that.
We can teach you how to do that.
We can give you the
confidence to do it.
skills to do it.
We can give you the
support to keep doing it
until you get it done,
and then teach you
how to get the book out there
so people actually read it.
And you, my friend,
have a huge impact
in the world that's
going to give you
a sense of meaning
and fulfillment
that you can't
even imagine today.
>>LISA: So you've
impacted someone's life.
They decide they want to write
their story like my friend who
had that accident on
the beach and went
in and out of those lives.
He could write
that story, right?
>>CANFIELD: Yeah.
>>LISA: How would he do that?
>>CANFIELD: Well, the writing
of it there's, a lot of ways.
Number one, you can
just sit down the write.
Number two, you can have
someone interview you,
because often we don't know what
we know until someone asks us.
You could record
it into a recorder
and have someone in Sri
Lanka or fiverr.com,
whatever, type it for you.
My wife's writing an episodic
memoir right now by doing that.
>>LISA: Of her life?
>>CANFIELD: Of her life.
>>LISA: With you?
>>CANFIELD: No, just
of her own life.
Not with me.
Well, I'm part if it,
but from childhood.
The key thing is once you get--
I always recommend people just
sit down and outline it first.
Dot points, whatever
you want to say.
And then you can speak into that
and put more my words on it.
But the key thing
is-- and this is
what made "Chicken
Soup" so successful--
get at least 10 other people to
read it and give you feedback.
Literally, page by page,
chapter by chapter, what works,
what doesn't.
On a scale of 1 to 10,
would you rate it a 10?
Anything less than
a 10, it's a 7,
what would it take
to make it a 10?
Too redundant, there's
self-disclosure, your preaching
at me, whatever it is.
And that's what made
"Chicken Soup" so good.
The first version, we
had 40 people read it,
give us feedback.
My sister said take out all
the preachy stuff at the end,
and don't tell me what to think.
And we did.
It made the book much better.
So all of that's
really important.
And then you've got
to sell the book.
And today you can
publish it on Amazon.
You can do a Kindle version.
You can self-publish
at Kinko's and get it--
>>LISA: It's amazing.
You can self-publish
an Amazon now.
>>CANFIELD: Exactly, exactly.
I mean, I would always prefer
to work with a big publisher,
but if you self-publish, which
I recommend a lot of people
do-- and read Dan Poynter's
book called "The Self-publishing
Manual."
That is a great resource.
And then John Kremer's book,
"1,001 Ways To Market Your
Book."
So those two resources
every author should do.
Because birthing the book's
the feminine part, right?
Promoting the book is
the masculine part.
And we get a lot of
stillborn births.
Let's put it this way.
The baby's born, and you
throw it in the dumpster.
>>LISA: Oh, gosh!
>>CANFIELD: Because
you don't go out,
and you don't do the
marketing you need to do.
>>LISA: That makes sense.
>>CANFIELD: So you have
to learn how to do PR,
how to do interviews,
how to get on the radio.
You can study all that.
There are books you can
read, seminars you can take,
YouTube videos you can watch.
We put together a program
called "Bestseller Blueprint."
If you want to go online,
bestsellerblueprint.com,
and it is an online
training program for how
to be a best selling author.
Again, it's a formula.
There is a system
to how do to this.
>>LISA: I love it.
It all comes back to formula.
>>CANFIELD: Right.
>>LISA: That is think big and
think formula is your motto.
It's brilliant
because you put it
into things that
people can actually
do and digest and follow.
Just like that gentleman
did by reading your book.
So in my experience, I
have a book coming out,
and I'm really excited about it.
And people say don't die
with your story in you,
so I wrote about my story.
So you're saying now
the whole point is just
to go out, and bring
it into the world,
and have faith with
that story, and know
that it'll help people.
>>CANFIELD: When we brought
out the first edition
of "The Success Principles--"
not I'll be doing this again
real soon-- I spent
five months on the road.
Five months doing
interviews, print interviews,
workshops in churches,
workshops in community centers,
for business groups, et cetera.
London, Canada, all
Canada, all across the US,
Ireland, all across
Europe, for five months.
Now that was a lot of
work, but it established me
as now the success guy.
And I'm not saying
everyone has to do it.
We didn't have the internet
then the way we have it now.
You can do much more with
your television show,
with the internet, with
affiliate marketing.
We know a lot more.
So the formula
today is different
than it was 10 years
ago, and that's
again like the "Bestseller
Blueprint" and Dan Poynter's
book.
>>LISA: Got to keep up with it.
>>CANFIELD: You have to keep up.
It's constantly changing.
>>LISA: Well, it's also
the blueprint as well.
I mean, a footprint
on the world,
too, to do it via the internet,
and it can be done, But?
Then the internet gets
heavily trafficked as well.
>>CANFIELD: It
does, and you always
have to be kind
of two steps ahead
of where it was a month ago.
There are people now that are
doing these million dollar book
launches, but they're
different than what you
did three years ago to do it.
It's a very strategic,
launch model
that a lot of people that
you know are teaching,
and it's just a
matter of doing it.
Tony Robbins once said something
I thought was very important.
He said, success leaves clues.
Someone has always done
what you want to do.
With a few exceptions.
First time to the moon,
that kind of thing.
But basically, there
are people out there
that have got million dollar
bestselling books in a year, so
what did they do?
So when "Chicken" came out,
we interviewed the five
bestselling authors in American
in the self help world-- John
Gray, Ken Blanchard, people
like that-- and said what
did you do?
And we looked for the patterns.
Oh, everybody did this.
Only one person did that,
but everybody did this,
everybody did that.
Then we said OK,
let's go do that.
>>LISA: You've done
the work for us.
>>CANFIELD: Yes.
>>LISA: Wow, that's brilliant.
Well, thank you so much.
You're poured so much
into us in this hour,
and the range has
just been beautiful.
>>CANFIELD: Thank you.
>>LISA: Thank you so much.
>>CANFIELD: You're welcome.
>>LISA: So appreciated
you being here.
And if you would like to
watch a replay of my interview
with Jack Canfield, you
can go to gaiamtv.com.
And until next time, I
invite you to stay inspired.
[MUSIC PLAYING]